Biguanides help the body manage glucose and insulin more effectively.
They decrease glucose production in the liver
and the absorption of glucose from food.
They also improve the cell's ability to recognize insulin
and increase the amount of glucose used for energy.
Food comes into the body and is broken down into glucose
which trvels through the blood to be used as energy.
The liver can also make glucose if the body needs it.
When glucose enters the blood,
the pancreas releases the right amount of a hormone called insulin,
to balane the blood levels by delivering glucose into the cells
that need energy and storing the extra.
Problems can occur when there is no insulin,
not enough insulin, or the cells can't recognize insulin
and can't use the glucose for energy.
Biguanides makes insulin receptors more productive
by processing extra glucose
and making muscle tissue more capable of using insulin.
This results in the body having an increased ability
to maintain healthy blood sugar levels.